Aaron Leon
aleon18@u.northwestern.edu
(630)-788-2688
linkedin.com/in/aaronleon1
github.com/aaronleon


Work Experience

Cofounder at Womentum
Boston, MA, Dec. 2015-Present
Womentum (womentum.io) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit that allows anyone around the world to donate to women entrepreneurs in developing countries. As the technical cofounder, I architected and implemented a donation platform that has raised over $10,000 to fund 20+ women-run microbusinesses in 6 countries.
Technologies Used: Javascript, Node.js, AngularJS 1.4x, MongoDB

SWE Intern at Jump Trading
Chicago, IL, Jun. 2017 - Aug. 2017
Jump Trading LLC. is a proprietary trading firm that focuses on algorithmic trading. At Jump Trading, I implemented low-latency web apps to replace legacy desktop apps.
Technologies Used: Python, Javascript, C++, QT, Tornado, Canvas

EECS 339 Teaching Assistant at Northwestern University
Evanston, IL, December. 2016 - Jun. 2017
EECS 339 is an undergraduate/graduate course in Database Management Systems that introduces students to SQL/MySQL and the internals of modern relational databases. As a TA, I hosted office hours, graded exams and projects, and gave supplementary lectures.
Technologies Used: SQL, MySQL

Developer at MADStudio
Evanston, IL, Sep. 2016 - Jun. 2017
The Media and Design Studio (MADStudio) provides in-house technology solutions for Weinberg School of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University. At MADStudio, I developed an interactive archiving application that is used by the Freshman Art History Seminar curriculum.
Technologies Used: PHP, MAMP, Omeka, CartoDB

Software Engineering Intern at Uptake
Chicago, IL, Jun. 2016 - Sep. 2016
Uptake is a predictive analytics company that creates custom data science solutions for industries like rail and construction. At Uptake, I restructured the deployment infrastructure of the core data science engines to increase modularity and scaleability.
Technologies Used: Java, Scala, AngularJS, Bash, Docker, Marathon, Mesos

Research Assistant at FUSE
Evanston, IL, Jun. 2015 - Jun. 2016
FUSE is a research team that studies and promotes STEM education. At FUSE, I codesigned "How to Train Your Robot", an educational challenge used to teach programming and robotics to 10,000+ middle and high school students from 170+ sites. I also developed internal data visualization tools and extended the open source graphical programming interface Ardublock.
Technologies Used: MATLAB, Java, Drupal, Arduino


Project Experience

Empathic Systems
Evanston, IL, Mar. 2015 - Dec. 2016
At Empathic Systems, I prototyped tinylab, a modular biometric smart watch intended for use in non-laboratory setting research. tinylab was designed to serve as a more cost-efficient and customized solution for wearable data collection.
Technologies Used: Arduino, RFduino, C++, Solidworks, 3D Printing


Education

Northwestern University
Evanston IL, 2014-2017
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, GPA: 3.63
Coursework: Machine Learning, Statistical Language
Modeling, Artificial Intelligence, Concurrent
Programming in Rust, Human Computer Interactions,
Database Management Systems, AGILE Project
Management


Extracurriculars

Director of EPIC Tech Team
I am the Director for the Tech Team of EPIC,
Northwestern's premiere student entrepreneurship
group. I mentor and lead a team of 10 student
developers to architect and implement client projects.

Other Extracurriculars
Asian American Intervarsity, Website Chair at Sigma Nu
Formerly: Chair of Alumni Relations of AIChE, ISBE Tech,
Alpha Phi Omega


Awards

2nd Place, Babson B.E.T.A. 2017
Finalist, Mass Innovation Night 2016
Finalist, Wildhacks 2015
1st Place, OpenBuild:Lacuna 2015
2nd Place, BattleHack Chicago 2015


Technologies

General: Javascript, Java, Python, C++, Rust, Bash
Web Development: Javascript, Node.js, AngularJS
Data Analysis: Python (NumPy, SciPy), MATLAB, Scala
Mobile Apps: Ionic, Cordova


Languages

English (Native), Cantonese (Native), Spanish
(Proficient), Mandarin (Basic)
